README.md, before:

KlakNDI
=======

![gif](https://i.imgur.com/I1ZMSY8.gif)

**KlakNDI** is a Unity plugin that allows for sending and receiving video
streams between multiple devices using [NDI]®.

[NDI]® (Network Device Interface) is a standard developed by [Vizrt] that
enables applications to deliver video streams over a local area network. Please
refer to [ndi.video][NDI] for more information about the technology.

[NDI]: https://ndi.video/
[Vizrt]: https://www.vizrt.com

System Requirements
-------------------

- Unity 2022.3 or later

Desktop platforms:

- Windows: x64, D3D11/D3D12
- macOS: x64 or arm64 (M1), Metal
- Linux: x64, Vulkan

Mobile platforms:

- iOS: arm64, Metal
- Android: arm64, Vulkan/OpenGL ES 3.x

KlakNDI runs without the NDI SDK on most supported platforms, but the iOS
platform requires the SDK for building with Xcode. Please download and install
the NDI SDK for iOS in advance of building.

KlakNDI requires network permissions on Android. Please follow the instruction
in [Android Support section].

[Android Support section]: README.md#android-support

License
-------

The NDI library files are provided under the terms of the [NDI SDK license].
Please review it before using the package in your project.

[NDI SDK license]: http://ndi.link/ndisdk_license

Known Issues and Limitations
----------------------------

- Dimensions of frame images should be multiples of 16x8. This limitation causes
  glitches on several mobile devices when using the Game View capture method.

- KlakNDI doesn't support audio streaming. There are several technical
  difficulties to implement without perceptible noise or delay, so there are no
  plans to implement it.

How To Install
--------------

This package uses the [scoped registry] feature to resolve package
dependencies. Open the Package Manager page in the Project Settings window and
add the following entry to the Scoped Registries list:

- Name: `Keijiro`
- URL: `https://registry.npmjs.com`
- Scope: `jp.keijiro`

![Scoped Registry](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/343936/162576797-ae39ee00-cb40-4312-aacd-3247077e7fa1.png)

Now you can install the package from My Registries page in the Package Manager
window.

![My Registries](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/343936/162576825-4a9a443d-62f9-48d3-8a82-a3e80b486f04.png)

[scoped registry]: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/upm-scoped.html

NDI Sender Component
--------------------

![send](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/343936/134309035-aa5be91f-098b-4352-a49f-0c2d4f49f5b0.png)

The **NDI Sender** component (`NdiSender`) sends a video stream from a given
video source.

**NDI Name** - Specify the name of the NDI endpoint (only available in the
Camera/Texture capture method).

**Keep Alpha** - Enable this checkbox to make the stream contain the alpha
channel. You can disable it to reduce the bandwidth.

**Capture Method** - Specify how to capture the video source from the following
options:

  - Game View - The sender captures frames from the Game View.
  - Camera - The sender captures frames from a given camera. This method only
    supports URP and HDRP.
  - Texture - The sender captures frames from a texture asset. You can also use
    a render texture with this option.

You can attach metadata using the C# `.metadata` property.

NDI Receiver Component
----------------------

![recv](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/343936/134309054-8c25ed46-263c-4041-b331-aefc3e0e6107.png)

The **NDI Receiver** component (`NdiReceiver`) receives a video stream and
feeds it to a renderer object or a render texture asset.

**NDI Name** - Specify the name of the NDI source. You can edit the text field
or use the selector to choose a name from currently available NDI sources.

**Target Texture** - The receiver copies the received frames into this render
texture asset.

**Target Renderer** - The receiver overrides a texture property of the given
renderer.

You can extract metadata using the C# `.metadata` property.

Tips for Scripting
------------------

You can enumerate currently available NDI sources using the NDI Finder class
(`NdiFinder`). See the [Source Selector] example for usage.

[Source Selector]: URP/Assets/Script/SourceSelector.cs

You can instantiate the NDI Sender/Receiver component from a script but at
the same time, you have to set an NDI Resources asset (`NdiResources.asset`).
See the [Sender Benchmark]/[Receiver Benchmark] examples for details.

[Sender Benchmark]: URP/Assets/Script/SenderBenchmark.cs
[Receiver Benchmark]: URP/Assets/Script/ReceiverBenchmark.cs

Android Support
---------------

KlakNDI requires the following permissions when running on Android:

- `android.permission.INTERNET`
- `android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE`
- `android.permission.CHANGE_WIFI_MULTICAST_STATE`

You can add them by [overriding the App Manifest]. Please refer to the
[AndroidManifest file] contained in the URP sample.

[overriding the App Manifest]:
  https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/overriding-android-manifest.html
[AndroidManifest file]: URP/Assets/Plugins/Android/AndroidManifest.xml

Commit message:

changed package name to com.pfc.jp.keijiro.klak.ndi, added list of modifications to readme

README.md, after:

KlakNDI
=======

![gif](https://i.imgur.com/I1ZMSY8.gif)

**KlakNDI** is a Unity plugin that allows for sending and receiving video
streams between multiple devices using [NDI]®.

[NDI]® (Network Device Interface) is a standard developed by [Vizrt] that
enables applications to deliver video streams over a local area network. Please
refer to [ndi.video][NDI] for more information about the technology.

[NDI]: https://ndi.video/
[Vizrt]: https://www.vizrt.com

Modifications by prefrontal cortex
-------------------
- Added NDI Audio support 
- Virtual Audio Spatializer to capture multiple audio streams for object-based audio and multi-channel audio
- OSC integration for object-based audio
- ASIO output support for virtual audio and AudioListener
- Test applications for NDI sending/receiving added to the repository
- Added support for Android 32+ (for example Meta Quest)
- Better support for variable frame rates / frame limiting

System Requirements
-------------------

- Unity 2022.3 or later

Desktop platforms:

- Windows: x64, D3D11/D3D12
- macOS: x64 or arm64 (M1), Metal
- Linux: x64, Vulkan

Mobile platforms:

- iOS: arm64, Metal
- Android: arm64, Vulkan/OpenGL ES 3.x

KlakNDI runs without the NDI SDK on most supported platforms, but the iOS
platform requires the SDK for building with Xcode. Please download and install
the NDI SDK for iOS in advance of building.

KlakNDI requires network permissions on Android. Please follow the instruction
in [Android Support section].

[Android Support section]: README.md#android-support

License
-------

The NDI library files are provided under the terms of the [NDI SDK license].
Please review it before using the package in your project.

[NDI SDK license]: http://ndi.link/ndisdk_license

Known Issues and Limitations
----------------------------

- Dimensions of frame images should be multiples of 16x8. This limitation causes
  glitches on several mobile devices when using the Game View capture method.

- KlakNDI doesn't support audio streaming. There are several technical
  difficulties to implement without perceptible noise or delay, so there are no
  plans to implement it.

How To Install
--------------

This package uses the [scoped registry] feature to resolve package
dependencies. Open the Package Manager page in the Project Settings window and
add the following entry to the Scoped Registries list:

- Name: `Keijiro`
- URL: `https://registry.npmjs.com`
- Scope: `jp.keijiro`

![Scoped Registry](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/343936/162576797-ae39ee00-cb40-4312-aacd-3247077e7fa1.png)

Now you can install the package from My Registries page in the Package Manager
window.

![My Registries](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/343936/162576825-4a9a443d-62f9-48d3-8a82-a3e80b486f04.png)

[scoped registry]: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/upm-scoped.html

NDI Sender Component
--------------------

![send](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/343936/134309035-aa5be91f-098b-4352-a49f-0c2d4f49f5b0.png)

The **NDI Sender** component (`NdiSender`) sends a video stream from a given
video source.

**NDI Name** - Specify the name of the NDI endpoint (only available in the
Camera/Texture capture method).

**Keep Alpha** - Enable this checkbox to make the stream contain the alpha
channel. You can disable it to reduce the bandwidth.

**Capture Method** - Specify how to capture the video source from the following
options:

  - Game View - The sender captures frames from the Game View.
  - Camera - The sender captures frames from a given camera. This method only
    supports URP and HDRP.
  - Texture - The sender captures frames from a texture asset. You can also use
    a render texture with this option.

You can attach metadata using the C# `.metadata` property.

NDI Receiver Component
----------------------

![recv](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/343936/134309054-8c25ed46-263c-4041-b331-aefc3e0e6107.png)

The **NDI Receiver** component (`NdiReceiver`) receives a video stream and
feeds it to a renderer object or a render texture asset.

**NDI Name** - Specify the name of the NDI source. You can edit the text field
or use the selector to choose a name from currently available NDI sources.

**Target Texture** - The receiver copies the received frames into this render
texture asset.

**Target Renderer** - The receiver overrides a texture property of the given
renderer.

You can extract metadata using the C# `.metadata` property.

Tips for Scripting
------------------

You can enumerate currently available NDI sources using the NDI Finder class
(`NdiFinder`). See the [Source Selector] example for usage.

[Source Selector]: URP/Assets/Script/SourceSelector.cs

You can instantiate the NDI Sender/Receiver component from a script but at
the same time, you have to set an NDI Resources asset (`NdiResources.asset`).
See the [Sender Benchmark]/[Receiver Benchmark] examples for details.

[Sender Benchmark]: URP/Assets/Script/SenderBenchmark.cs
[Receiver Benchmark]: URP/Assets/Script/ReceiverBenchmark.cs

Android Support
---------------

KlakNDI requires the following permissions when running on Android:

- `android.permission.INTERNET`
- `android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE`
- `android.permission.CHANGE_WIFI_MULTICAST_STATE`

You can add them by [overriding the App Manifest]. Please refer to the
[AndroidManifest file] contained in the URP sample.

[overriding the App Manifest]:
  https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/overriding-android-manifest.html
[AndroidManifest file]: URP/Assets/Plugins/Android/AndroidManifest.xml
